Scanpath viz (#741)
pupil-labs/pupil-docs: invisible/pupil-cloud/visualizations/scanpath/index.md

# Scanpath

<Youtube src="6xn2ehOLS94"/>

The output of the [**Reference Image Mapper**](/pupil-cloud/enrichments/reference-image-mapper/), [**Marker Mapper**](/pupil-cloud/enrichments/marker-mapper/), and [**Manual Mapper**](/pupil-cloud/enrichments/manual-mapper/) enrichments can be visualized as a scanpath over the reference image or surface.

> A scanpath is a graphical representation of fixations over time, showing how a participant’s visual attention moves across a scene. Scanpaths are a great tool for analyzing visual attention and perception, as they reveal which parts of a scene drew focus and in what order.

Reviewer: Can we come up with alternative word choice for `drew`?

Reviewer 2: Will change for 'attracted'

- Fixation locations - Visualised as numbered circles
- Fixation durations - Mapped to the size of the circles. Longer fixations correspond to larger circles

> - Saccades - Assuming a task without smooth pursuit movements, saccades are represented by lines connecting sequential fixations. Saccade distances between sequential fixations are reflected by the length of the lines. Longer lines correspond to bigger gaze shifts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Saccades - Saccades are represented by lines connecting sequential fixations. Saccade distances between sequential fixations are reflected by the length of the lines. Longer lines correspond to bigger gaze shifts. Note this assumes a task without smooth pursuit movements.
```
